# Midterm Project Documentation

At first, I had an idea to build a simple game where asteroids of random size and speed fall from the top of the screen and the player has to control a spacecraft to dodge them. Pretty niche. But when I started sketching the game, I realized I wanted something different from my own midterm project. I wanted it not only to be a game, but an experience. I wanted something shocking, funny, entertaining, and wholesome. Then I saw that I could achieve all that with a text based video game.

The game premises were simple enough: each time, the player is presented with a scenario and they have 4 different choices on how to act. Each choice leads to different endings, with different stories. But then I saw the great flaw in my grand vision of a game. By offering the player 4 different choices each scenario, I am increasing the number of scenarios each level by a power of 4! Even though my game does not function like a normal game in terms of level and everything, it has levels. Please consult [this sketch](sketch.jpg) I made when developing the implementation. As you can see, my game functions like a tree Data Structure in computer science. The first level would be in this case the first scenario. And the following 4 scenarios would be second level etc. You can clearly see the growth rate from the sketch as well. Extremely unideal! 

I had two different workarounds to make my game work. First was to reduce the number of choices to 2 because exponent of 2 is much better than exponent of 4. For illustration, in level 5 scenarios, the number of scenarios if I went with 2 would be only 32 whilst the number of scenarios if I went with 4 would be a staggering 1024! However, I did not want to change my original vision for the game, even though it seemed like the smart thing to do. I wanted to stick with it for once. 

So I went with the other workaround: end some storylines short. So that the number of scenarios does not necessarily increase by power of 4 each level. 
